Let's start this section by considering why we need segmentation.
We need segmentation as an alternative to aggregation,
meaning, analyzing all your sessions,
all your users, at the same time.
If we want to be a little bit dramatic,
we can say that aggregation is the enemy.
That is to say that if you're only viewing aggregated Google Analytics data,
it is likely that you're missing insights and opportunities.
Segmenting, on the other hand,
focuses your analysis on meaningful subgroups of users or sessions.
As a result, we should be able to surface insights that
otherwise would remain obscured in the aggregated data.
Within Google Analytics, segmentation includes
built-in segments known as system segments,
and also custom segments that we define ourselves.
Let's start with system segments.
Systems segments can be based on
specific characteristics of your users such as mobile traffic,
device category equals mobile,
or based on overall behavior patterns such as
single session versus multi-session users, or non-bound sessions.
We can define and apply a segment in almost any report in the Google Analytics UI.
Let's say that we're in our landing pages report and we wanted to
evaluate bounce on landing pages for mobile device users.
In a previous lesson,
we saw how we could apply device category as
a secondary dimension and then filter for mobile on the secondary dimension.
But we could take an even more direct approach by
just applying a mobile built-in segment.
We'll click "Add segment."
Let's click "System" to select only the built-in system segments.
We'll select "Mobile Traffic," and for now,
we'll deselect "All Users."
Now, we see that mobile traffic is applied as a segment.
We can see that at the top of the report,
we can also see it within the primary dimension column in the table.
Now, we can analyze all metrics in the table for mobile traffic only.
Let's now go to the Exit Pages report,
and to play different built-in segment.
We'll remove the mobile traffic segment that we applied in our previous report.
The Exit Pages report is helpful because it shows us
the percentage of time a pageview was the last pageview in a session.
We know that we don't want any page that's involved in
a conversion process to serve as an exit page with a high percentage.
That would not be a positive indicator.
But as we consider Exit Pages,
we want to remember that exits also include bounces.
If we say to ourselves some of our visitors are always going to balance,
we're never going to completely eliminate bounce rate.
But what if we could segment out those visitors who do bounce?
So, we could then evaluate users who were engaged enough
to at least perform one additional action after landing.
In this case, we can click "Add segment," we'll deselect "All
Users," we'll select "System," Non bounce Sessions, Apply.
Now, we're able to more meaningfully evaluate exit rate for
those sessions in which users were engaged enough not to bounce to begin with.
We're using segments to break down our audience into more meaningful subgroups.
As a note, because segments require GA to perform on the fly calculations,
they are sometimes subject to sampling,
which we'll discuss in an upcoming lesson.